We learned about all these lifecycle hooks in the last lecture,
now let's see them in action.
We can easily execute some code at the different points of the lifecycle by adding them here as functions to the
object we're passing to the vue instance,
so to our vue instance basically. The first one is beforeCreate, so we can add the beforeCreate
function like this
and here I will simply console log beforeCreate so we can see reached this hook,
you might of course execute any other code you need to execute there.
Thereafter, we have created,
so let's also add this function here
and of course I shall also rename this here to created.
Then we have beforeMount, we now created this vuejs instance but it hasn't been mounted to the dom
yet,
so it is yet to be reflected on what we see in the browser.
Thereafter of course, we have mounted, now mounted as the name implies means now it is attached to our
real dom,
we can see it in the browser
now. If some data changes, we have beforeUpdate which is executed right before the dom or the part which
needs to be updated in the dom is re-rendered and then we get updated which as you might guess is called
right after this part of the dom has been updated.
And then when it comes to it and for our instance, we get beforeDestroy which is called right before
the instance,
well yeah like you guess is removed, so is destroyed not only removed, it is destroyed.
And finally at the very end we got destroyed,
this would be a hook where it's good to do some cleanup work or beforeDestroy hook
to be precise, to do some cleanup work if you need to release some resources or anything like that.
This is the whole cycle,
now we could already see some of these functions but not all, to be able to see beforeUpdate and updated,
we need to implement something which changes something and to see beforeDestroy and destroy,
we need to implement some code to actually destroy this instance.
I'll do both with buttons here,
the first button should say update title and all I want to do here is on a click listener,
I simply want to set the title equal to changed and then I will add a button where I say destroy
and here I want to call the destroy method let's say which I'll add down here in the methods property,
that's important to realize, all these lifecycle hooks are not inside the methods property,
these are all functions registered directly on the root object we passed to this constructor.
So in the methods property here, I will set up destroy which is of course a function where I will call
this referring to this vue instance and then destroy with a dollar sign at the beginning,
this will destroy this instance.
Well let's see it in action by opening up the console, hitting control enter to re-render this
and we already see beforeCreate it created, beforeMount it mounted which makes sense,
these are the first hooks get which get executed in this order.
Now let me hit update title and you'll see that beforeUpdate and updated was executed, of course because
this is what we did,
we updated something, we updated a property, we updated a property which required the dom to be changed
and hence we saw beforeUpdate and updated,
interesting.
If I hit update title again, it will set title to changed again which is the value the title already has,
see that? No method gets executed now because as I explained in the how does vuejs update the dom lecture,
it doesn't do this if there is no real change to be taken care of. It recognizes that even though we
yes touched this title property,
we didn't change the value, it's the same value as before,
hence no need to re-render anything,
hence no need to call either beforeUpdate nor updated.
And finally let's destroy it by hitting the destroy button and you see beforeDestroy and destroy
got called and now the changed text is still here but it's not longer controlled by vuejs, the vuejs
instance is gone and no longer available,
so every other code we would have here, all these buttons will no longer work and I can prove this
by resetting it,
clll control again and hit update title, you see even though we now theoretically should see an update
because the text isn't different one than changed,
it doesn't work because the vuejs instance is dead.
This does not mean that it removes all the code from the dom as you can clearly see, it only means
it removes all the javascript logic,
so all our connections are now dead. And this is the vuejs life cycle and a tiny bit of how vuejs
updates a dom with the beforeUpdate and updated methods here in action.
With that let's move on to more practice driven modules
but that was a core module to understand how vuejs works behind the scenes and how you may utilize it.